---
date: 2013-11-10
layout: post
title: Chapter 4 - Aram - Cycle 1
category: chapters
comments: true
tags: [cycle1, aram, mara]
image:
  feature: features/upside-down-sky-1.jpg
---


Aram and Mara made their way back to the Core Ring Road. From there they hopped on to a shuttle that led them to the Central Core Terminal. There were regular shuttles that ferried workers to More Inc from here. It would be odd for two kids to get on it, and although they were dressed nicely, they had some unseemly odours from their trip to the trash bin. Though, it seemed that no one assumed that the stench originated from these two kids, and looked at each other with accusatory glances.

Aram hadn't been the the More Inc headquarters before. It looked like a giant dome, but was in fact the shape of a giant sphere - one half burried completely underground. Mara told Aram that this was just the headquarters and there were several other faciltiies across the lands where a lot of the manufacturing was done. The headquarters was the place however where a lot of the design work, prototyping and special projects take place - such as the Sifrocket.

They both entered the central atrium at the equator of the More Inc headerquarters, the security guards at the door quickly glancing at them but without moving an inch.

Mara made her way to the receptionist. "Hey Timblee!", she said. "Hi Mara. What a surprise to see you here today?" Timblee responded. "Exactly," Mara said, "it is a surprise! So don't let my father find out. Could you get me and my Academy friend a guest pass?" Aram was impressed how easy this part was.

"Well, it pays off to be friendly to people when they come to your house for parties."

***

Mara led Aram around the place, as if she owned it, and in a way she did. They went up some elevators, down some hallways. She would flash a smile at gaurds and they would open doors for them. Aram had lost track of where they were in the building. It was all artificially lit and it gave no sense of time or location in the building.

They entered into an office with a sea of cubicles. "I used to play hide and seek here, I know my way around." Mara seemingly tried to answer any question Aram may have had. "Who are we going to see?" - Mara simply responded, "my babysitter."

As they walked through the cubicles, Aram would notice people turn with surprise to see two kids walking by, but then smile and say "Hey Mara!", and she would quickly turn and smile back with a little wave.

Mara stopped, and popped her head into one of the cubicles. Sitting inside was a young woman with dark rimmed glasses, coffeestained white tshirt and paperwork scattered all around her workstation. She was busy scribbling on a schematic to notice Mara and Aram standing behind her.

"Hey Suali!" Mara said as she hugged Suali from behind. Suali was taken by surprise, "Hey Mara! You have to stop scaring me like that! What are you doing here?"

"I would like to say I was in the area and happened to drop by to see you, but I actually have a favor to ask."

"Oh, anything for you dear," Suali sincerely said. Aram stood there awkwardly. Suali looked towards him and said, "whose your friend?"

"Oh this is Aram, he's from the Academy. He accompanied me here on this errand. Its not safe for a girl to be travelling around on her own you know." - "How kind of him," Suali smiled and pinched Aram's cheeks.

Mara reached into Aram's pocket, which didn't help with the awkwardness, and pulled out the blueprint. She unfolded it and gave it to Suali. "Look, you know me, I sometimes am clumsy and have, lets say 'accidents'. So father had this blueprint around the house and well, now this is all thats left of it. Can you be a dear and tell me what you can about this blueprint and help me get a print of it? I'd like to replace it before father gets home he won't be the wiser? And it'll be our secret of course."

Suali looked at the scrap of the blueprint. "I can't quite make out from the sketches but usually there's an identifier on these blueprints. Lets see, you're in luck the identifier number for this blueprint is still visible. So it'll help us track down and make a reprint. You see here," Suali pointed towards on one of the corners, "this ID ends with 'SR', which is for the Sifrocket project."

Aram and Mara quickly looked at each other.

"Oh, I'm such a klutz, this is kind of important I guess," Mara feigned being absolutely worried, "Dad will stop my allowance if he finds out! Can you get me a copy of this blueprint?"

Suali thought for a moment and then answered, "unfortunately I'm not working on this project right now so I wouldn't have access. I've been busy on new revisions of the Sky Mesh drones."

"Who could we ask? Its really important!" Mara pleaded.

"You could go to the Project Lead, Cacoph, he's really friendly you know, I'm sure he won't tell your father."

Mara thanked Suali and they both left to find Cacoph.

"Hey you know that Cacoph is Costram's father?" said Aram. "Yeah, I guess we just will have to keep from him what his son's up to right now!"

"Maybe we should just leave, I mean, we know that the blueprint is from the Sifrocket," Aram didn't want to sound like he was backing off from this adventure, but he didn't want to push their luck either.

"Don't be silly, I've met Cacoph before, he's fun to chat with. And who knows what we find out. We're already away from the Academy, might as well make use of this time."

***

Cacoph was standing over a large conference room table observing some schematics with an engineer when he was interrupted by his secretary. She informed him that he had a couple young visitors. He made his way to his office expecting to see his son Costram.

"Oh, Mara, nice to see you kid. And you," he looked towards Aram, "you look familiar, aren't you Station Alma's kid?"

"Yes sir, I'm Aram, nice to meet you. Sorry for interrupting your day." Aram took an instant liking to Cacoph. He wasn't too properly dressed but had a presence that he was an important person, not because of how he looked but because of how he thought and what he did. His culture pattern of orange hues with solid wing shaped lines looked very similar to that of Costram's.

"Not a problem," Cacoph replied, though he suddenly had a slight moment of anxiety as he feared something might have happened to his son, "is everything okay, is this about my son Costram?"

"Oh no, its not about him - he's great, we met him today!" Mara tried to alleviate Cacoph's minor anxiety attack. Cacoph took a deep breath and took a seat at his desk. It was quiet disorganized to anyone who walked in, but in Cacoph's mind everything was exactly where he needed it to be. He even moved a paper that was seemingly lined up with another to be a bit asymmetrical. "That's good to hear. Um, aren't you two supposed to be at the Academy? Were you two part of the new Initiation batch today?"

Mara and Aram hadn't expected this question. Aram wasn't typically quick on his feet with replies, he had a feeling Mara would step in with an exclamation, which she did without missing a beat.

"Yes, its been quite an educational Initiation day. In fact they wanted to challenge us, to you know, learn from each other, so they sent us all on small independent research projects to listen to people doing interesting work. We decided to come here and talk to you about the important, groundbreaking work you're doing on the Sifrocket! If you have time that is."

Aram just stared at her dumbfounded. He realized he had to adapt to her new routines quickly. After all, it didn't really matter what the blueprint was exactly of, they knew that a Facilitator at the Academy had in her possession a blueprint of some part of the rocket.

"Really, I'd be honored to tell you about the project!" Cacoph said, he was excited that these young minds were interested in the work he was doing. "I have some really exciting things to show you actually. We have some fascinating models and prototypes that I can show you."

Aram and Mara were glad he took to this idea well, given how impromptu it was. Aram guessed that having respite from the stress of working on such intense grand projects to entertain some fascinated kids was a welcome opportunity for Cacoph.

Cacoph took both of them around to where they had been developing early concept models and blueprints of the rocket. He talked about all the different teams that were involved and how complex a task it was to build this by the next Proximity. He was quite positive they were on track. He introduced them to some members of the team that were working on various sub-systems. The showed off the work they were doing, which was more complex than anything they had ever seen before. It gave them a certain level of respect for the work these people were doing. They had no idea it took hundreds of people working in close collaboration, for a good part of their lives, to put together this rocket.

"How close are you to building prototypes? Can we see them?" asked Aram, genuinely really intrigued and curious to see something working..

"We've already been testing some basic rockets in the the Barren, the deserts a few hundred miles outside of Proxacity. We have a few prototypes that are in the bottom floors of this facility, but unfortunately I can't take you too without further security clearance," Cacoph said, "but I'm sure you can ask your dad to take you around some day."

"That's fine, thanks for your time!" - "Yeah, this was an amazing tour of the project, can't wait to see how it comes along."

"Well this has been a great detour from my normal day, but I'll have to get back to work. I hope this will help with your research project."

"Research project?" Aram forgetfully asked. "You know, what we're here for," Mara nudged him. "Oh yes, of course, this was invaluable."

Mara and Aram made their way out of the floor towards the elevator. Aram grabbed Mara's arm all of a sudden and stopped. "What is it Aram?" she asked. He looked at her and said, "I think we better hide."

"Why? From what?" Mara was confused, she looked around. Then she saw it too. Her father, Mazar, and Aram's mom, Alma, were walking across the hall. They were deep in conversation, so they hadn't noticed them. They hid around the corner from where the elevators were located. Mazar was walking Alma towards the elevator. They seem to be coming out of a meeting.

"Listen Mazar, I know this is a unique situation, but we have to deal with it. I don't want to wait for another Proximity just because your engineers have gone missing."

"I can't build a rocket with empty chairs Alma."

"Look, I'll bring this up with the Metastation again but we've already asked the Witnessers to look into it. They haven't been able to find any incriminating evidence. There are too many black spots in the experiences in the moments that would give any valuable information." Alma pressed the elevator button and looked at her watch.

"We'll need more support, we'll have to increase our hiring efforts, but it takes time to train people, if we even find the right talent," Mazar explained. "I can take some people from our other projects but our bottom line suffers and creates room for our competitors to enter those markets."

"You do what you need to do, we'll try to provide the extra funding for it."

"And what about the other thing?"

The elevator arrived and Alma stepped in and turned around facing Mazar, "I'll take care of the Alal issue."

The door closed and Mazar sighed. He then left back towards his office.

Mara and Aram looked at each other, and knew they had no idea how deep they were getting themselves involved into this situation.