---
date: 2013-11-07
layout: post
title: Chapter 2 - Present
category: chapters
comments: true
tags: [present, aram, zash]
image:
  feature: features/upside-down-sky-1.jpg
---

Aram pondered the question on his mind the day of his first Proximity as he stared into his eyes. Eyes that gleamed with the same curiosity of childhood, but were enveloped by the wrinkles of time. He took off the visor, fitted with tiny mirrors that reflected back his gaze when it was turned off. He always wondered if it was purposeful - a way to help bring you back to the present into your own identity by letting you see yourself. 

"Let me help you take that off," offered Zash, gently lifting the visor off of Aram. Aram squinted, "the lights are too harsh and bright, lets keep them dimmed so I don't get blinded every time I come out." Zash motioned for the lights to fade to a warm hue before asking. Noticing Aram's persistent smile he asked, "you look like you witnessed something special. How does it feel?"

"I feel happy to see her again, to feel the energy and vitality of youth. The unknowns that were to be. Its bittersweet really," replied Aram.

Zash continued, "how real was this thing you just experienced?"

"The PI, or as it was properly called the Phosphene Immersion, is quite different from reality," Aram motioned towards the glass cylinder that contained a smooth crystal sphere floating inside. "In some ways, the act of immersion is a pale comparison and in others it goes beyond it. Your mind interprets the signals and fills the gaps of experience such as the feeling of wind on your skin, the textures of objects, and the emotions of the situation - but the interpretation is still a poor translation. There's always something not quite right. On the other hand, you're not just immersing one person's past experiences, the data crystal may have information about others present in the experience, and so you can get overwhelmed by the sense of all these experiences, but with practice can choose to focus attention through the minds of different people. Its as if you can travel from mind to mind."

Zash rearticulated to see if he understood, "So the immersion doesn't just look at the source person's memories but will aggregate those that are in proximity. So its not a true representation of that person's feelings or perspectives, but an aggregate manifestation of events?"

"Right, but mixed in with your own feelings. Its difficult to be an objective viewer and take the event for what it is and not be distracted by every fleeting thought or gesture or glance. But as a Witness, I have been trained for that."

"That doesn't quite explain your foolish grin," teased Zash.

One could almost notice the slight blush beneath the wrinkled skin of the patterns on his cheeks. "Yes, we don't usually immerse ourselves!", explained Aram before continuing, "being too immersed and emotionally involved in any persons' life can affect the entire experience, but also leads you to believe you are truly living in that reality - which is why Witnesses wouldn't immerse in lives they were part of - it makes it difficult to be jolted back from the immersion. One can go insanely mad; the world around you deconstructed and nothing would make sense! It happened to someone quite close to me once."

Zash glanced at the PI device, a simple looking cylinder that was transparent except for the two ends which had a cloudy graphite texture. Inside of it was crystal which was placed there by Aram. Zash's curiosity led him to ask, "I understand this data crystal contains experiences, but how did these experiences get captured in the first place?"

Aram thought about it for a moment, clearing his dry throat. A simple answer was not going to suffice. "The Witnessers have been around since the end of the Isolation War. This was long before your time and place; and even mine actually." Aram looked up trying to remember knowledge he hadn't used in a while, "the records say that the Isolation War was over the freedom of mind versus peace of mind." 

Aram shifted his head closer to Zash, for he loved a captive audience and Zash was a sponge. "Peace defeated Freedom. The Isolated, the Cultures that lost, left to build their own society out in the seas. The Cultures that won decided to institute a law that required every newborn to be implanted with a sensory mindmeld circuit. Their sensory experiences would be transmitted wirelessly to a central repository. Experiences could also be played back through the implants and used to, oh you know, solve crimes and deal with espionage and traitors and prevent murders or adultery and unpopular alternative lifestyles."

"But this had a huge potential for abuse. And it caused more problems than solved them. Eventually, it led to the Culture Wars which ended after a resolution was reached amongst all the Cultures - besides the Isolates, they weren't considered a part of the Cultures any more. They created the Witness Chamber where all these transmissions would be preserved and selected special members of society that would act as Witnesses to immerse in these transmissions, but only if certain protocols were met."

"So you're one of them," Zash plainly stated the obvious. "And you have one of these sensory mindmeld devices in your head?"

"Yes - my experiences have been practically transmitting since I came into existence." 

"So your experiences are all in this one crystal?"

"Yes. No. No, its not just my experiences. One crystal contains the experiences of one Cycle. Of everyone in that Cycle."

"Incredible." Zash didn't know if he believe the old man, but was amazed that this was possible.

"Well this is fairly new technology, I don't quite understand it and yes it is incredible," Aram tried to explain. "At the start they had enormous warehouses that stored this data. And over time it got cheaper and smaller. All the data banks got converted to crystals and the old machines were destroyed. If we had another Cycle maybe we'd have all of our history in ONE single Crystal."

"So now all that remains...", Zash wondered.

"Are these three crystals. From the last three Cycles. I don't know what remains of all the historic records of Aique, but I guarded these three with my life. They hold the truth to why we are here right now."

Zash took a deep breath. This was a lot of alien information to comprehend. "We can practically live through every life from the past three cycles?"

"I wouldn't recommend every," Aram said with a smile.

"Of course not. It might actually be really boring, " Zash laughed. "Aram, of all the experiences you could have chosen, why did you choose go to that particular moment?"

"That was the day I met her. If you could go back to ... wait you're too young to understand," Aram said, "we have practically an infinite amount of experiences on our hands and starting at any point would be just as random. I could die at any moment too!", Aram added with some dramatic flair. "Well so could you. And so I started with my fondest memory, the moment I fell in love. Yet, a part of me does believe that that was the day it all began."

"Very touching old man - and if you could fall in love as a kid, I could have too. You're not the only one with moments of magical memories!"

"Ah yes, I meant no insult. The Phosphene Immersion works like a loose thread, you just pull on one and try to unravel it as you jump from thread to thread. You may get lost in the threads but at some point the pattern of the whole cloth comes into view."

"Well, are you up for figuring out the pattern?"

"I have nothing better to do my friend. My own memory has faded and been replaced by all the immersions I have been through in my life as a Witness, so walking through the past and seeing what paths they lead to might be the best can do right now. It may be breaking all the rules of the Witnesses but I don't think they are around to complain right now."

Zash picked up the visor and placed it softly onto Aram's face. Aram activated the visor, which connected the sensory mindmeld attached to the neurons of his brain with the data crystal in the Phosphene Immersion device. His world went black, the sounds around him quietened and the feelings in his fingers numbed.