# Chapter 7 - Costram - Year 10

- Alal is hosting another meeting, this time with a smaller group of people on a rooftop (Astral, Anda, Alea, Phea, Costram and a few others)
- Alal is having an argument with Astral while Costram looks on. Astral says that the Stations have been censoring their media, barging on their meetups, and they don't know who to trust anymore. The media is supportive of the Sifr Rocket - they are loosing the propaganda war against the Stations. Alal says revolutions take time and they wouldn't have a boot on their face if they were not doing something right.
- Alal suggests the biggest protest they've ever held, a sit-in in front of More Inc, called "More is Less", to prevent their workers from going into work.
- Alal asks Anda if she knew anything about the "break ins" and if they were behind it? He said the Mystics were being blamed for disturbing the peace. While he found it humorous he didn't see how it helped their message. A burglar broke in and rearranged everything instead of stealing things. It was bizarre and wondered if it was part of the Station/More Incs tactics to create bad PR for the Mystics. Costram mentions how his friend Aram has been investigating similar 'break-ins' and how nothing was stolen. Anda says that it definitely wasn't any of the Mystics doing it. Phea looks uneasy.
- As Costram leaves, Astral follows him downstairs and talks to him if he could get his father's badge during the day of the Protest. Costram asks what he'll do but Astral says its better if he just do his role and not know about the whole plan.